The van was shaking violently. So it was with the vans moving through the city in the early morning, on the verge of breaking the speed limit. Amok always drives very quietly when he makes deliveries from the bakery, but today Pesach begins. In the cab is him, dressed in black like the rest of the group. Next to him is Mara, with her hair in a bun so as not to have any problems during the extraction operations. In the truck bed, somewhat uncomfortable, are Kinor, Nazir, Sara and Zuria.
Matzah can be made with wheat, oat, rye, barley or spelt flour. It is forbidden to ferment the dough. No yeast or lactic bacteria. The sourdough fad should be discontinued during Passover. I know, you are thinking that you can keep your sourdough in the refrigerator because it will most likely last 8 days. But sourdough is a source, perhaps endless, of jametz. And jametz is forbidden.
To expect people to abide by certain traditions in this century of forgetfulness and minimal attention spans is superlative naiveté. The bakery commando group is part of the solution to the problem. The van continues to lurch toward its first destination. Of course, it's not the only van driving around the city, this is a fierce, coordinated attack that hopes to hit some 300 bakeries. Kinor, Nazir, Sara and Zuria have their machine guns loaded. Mara has the smoke bombs ready.
The braking produces a terrible noise. Mara jumps out of the truck and opens the door of the first bakery with movie-like violence. She throws the first smoke bomb. The doors of the van open. Kinor is the first to enter the premises. Everybody down, he shouts in a bank robber's voice. The bakery employees are terrified. They close their eyes tightly and hope not to die during this time. They hear noises but see nothing, because they closed their eyes. There seem to be bags. The assailants are grabbing things. Zuria looks Nazir in the eyes. Don't take the cornstarch alfajores, she tells him.
Forty-three seconds. It would be an undisputed Olympic record were it not for the fact that mugging is not among the world's accepted sporting disciplines. Up, shouts Amok. There is the sound of the truck's tires, which begin to spin faster than they should. A little more white smoke on the scene. Twenty-five more seconds pass. Silence, or what can be called silence in the middle of the city, is already heard in the bakery. The manager of the bakery continues with his eyes closed. Martina is the first to open her eyes.
The cash register is there. The cash is there. The computer, the fiscal controller and the cornstarch alfajores are there. The rest is gone. The figazas, the hamburger bread, the sweet bread that nobody took at Christmas, the sandwiches of crumbs, the sliced bread fermented in cold for two days. Everything is gone. We hear screams and new smoke bombs. There is a bakery two blocks away. Martina laughs because she doesn't know what else to do. She grabs a cornstarch alfajor and bites into it, because the manager still doesn't dare to look at what happened. There is no more jametz in the bakery.